foreign
s welcome to uh this week's episode of
the cro confidential podcast I'm your
host Sam blonde we have an amazing guest
joining us today as we continue the
founder-led sales mini series on the cro
confidential podcast I'm ecstatic to
introduce Colin zema Colin is the
founder and CEO of omni uh this
incredible bi company that is about a
year into its Journey we're going to
talk a bunch about Colin we're going to
talk a bunch about Omni and we're going
to talk a bunch about how Omni has
acquired so many uh customers in in just
a year's time so uh Colin welcome to the
Pod uh and excited to jump right in with
you thanks for having me excited
um so before we jump into Omni
specifically the way that I met Colin I
had joined Founders fund this is uh
between six and seven months ago now and
um Parker who is my CEO at zenefits now
the CEO at Rippling I came to him and
said uh I'm investing now do you know
any early stage companies that uh I
should meet with the founder and take a
look at
um and without hesitation he said I have
one
um and Parker spins near zero time Angel
Investing and doesn't really Angel
invest and he was like he he said that
and he was like but I did Angel invest
in this company um and you have to meet
Colin from Omni uh and so he introduced
the two of us again this was maybe six
months ago and I've now gotten to known
gotten to know Colin uh through several
meetings and we're becoming uh friends
and I'm really just enjoying getting to
know him in this business uh and so
that's a little bit of the background on
this relationship and the the sort of
like um entry to this this founder in
this company uh that uh has just like
positively reinforced Parker's
enthusiasm uh about both you colony and
the business so again excited to have
you
um and excited to talk about how you've
been so successful at acquiring this set
of customers um just a year in before we
jump into that
is yeah
um I mean we're trying to build the next
great bi platform
um so the the Big Challenge in bi is
that you have a lot of different
stakeholders so everyone in the
organization wants to use data you've
got very technical data people and you
have everyone else in the company and
most tools focus on one group or the
other and we are trying to build a
platform that satisfies both so we're
trying to build great technical tools
for data teams with governance and sort
of all the centralization that a data
team wants but we're also trying to give
all the power to the rest of the
organization to build their own
analytics move really quickly not wait
for the data team to do things and
create a really seamless process to
actually transfer business logic between
those two groups so let everyone build
the things that they need
and still let the data team be happy to
take it over
that makes a lot of sense and so you're
building
um what all frame is like the Next
Generation bi uh company and you have
some experience in this space so uh tell
us a little bit about your background
prior to starting Omni and I think you
started this about a year ago so um
timelines as well yeah so we we found we
started the company last March so we're
about a year old
um I spent the last eight years at
looker so this was a big bi company that
got acquired by Google for I think it
was 2.6 billion dollars
um I spent eight years there and I was
actually one of the first customers
there with a company called hotel
tonight so I was a customer uh a data
person love the bi space ended up at
looker
um over my time at looker I led customer
support and success product and
analytics at different times over the
life of the business so I was sort of
like the super user slash product
Builder
um and you know as we got acquired by
Google uh it sort of was evident that
the the product was not building in the
same way and that the team was excited
to go do a lot of the really ambitious
things that
um you know we didn't have the
opportunity to do anymore so uh
the the founding team at looker is or at
uh Omni rather is two of us from looker
and the CTO came from a company called
Stitch that got acquired by Talon so an
ETL services company and a lot of our
team uh 19 out of the 20 folks are from
looker and Stitch so it's a group of
people that have been building I think
we have something like 150 years of bi
experience across the 20 people that's
it uh yeah so I mean it's uh it's helped
us move pretty quickly and uh it's kind
of nice to like look back at things that
took us you know nine to 12 months to
build a looker that someone goes and
bangs out in two days
um and it's yeah I mean I think that was
really the core connection to Parker is
it's really nice to build something uh
take all the learning that you have from
that thing and sort of re-rev it and try
to build it better and in some ways it's
hard because you have to throw away
everything that you just built over the
last decade but in other ways it it sort
of like re-onlocks you to do what you
actually wanted to do the first time and
that's kind of what's been so exciting
is that we're picking up a lot of the
core things that we learn but we're sort
of extending them or tweaking them in
certain ways and building the right
infrastructure under them so that it can
be kind of that much better the next
time
uh that's a great story we talk about
this concept of um founder market fit uh
and you know couldn't be stronger given
your background and the business that
you're building and I really like the
analogy that I hadn't thought of before
you making it but
um the the circumstances were certainly
different but you know Parker sort of
building xenovitz 2.0 which is now
Rippling uh it was a prior business that
he had a as you know much context in the
space he was building as anyone in the
world arguably and so this is a bit of
again different circumstances but
similar situation where um looker was
acquired by Google you now have the
opportunity to build
um sort of like either looker 2.0 or
next-gen bi however we want to frame it
um given all of the information that you
know
um and the experience that you have so
uh that that's really exciting and again
like super strong product Market fit uh
okay so you started this business a year
ago let's get an understanding before we
go on this journey of what has
transpired throughout the last now 13
plus months
um where are you today so how many how
many paying customers do you have uh how
many employees do you have how many
folks in go to market do you have and
then we'll sort of like uh talk through
how you got from uh March of 2022 to now
about May 1st of 2023. yep
um we have 20 folks on the dot uh it's
16 in product and Engineering so very
heavy on the build side and and that was
intentional because we were fortunate to
be able to raise a good amount of
capital actually from two former looker
board members at uh at a pair of DC
firms
um bill bill at first round and Tom at
Red point so we were fortunate to sort
of take a big swing and get heavy in
product and Engineering we hired uh I
guess our first sales engineer in
January and we have two go to market
people that started in April uh on April
1st so
um very young on the dedicated go to
market side
um but again uh between those three
between those three folks I think about
20 to 25 years of experience at looker
um so it's we're sort of trying to take
every shortcut that we can to have
people bring in context because there's
this idea that we could bring in Sellers
and like my dad was in sales so I
understand that as a transferable skill
across industry but at the same time if
we can take people that have been
selling this sort of technical bi tool
for the last 10 years and reapply them
we can get them accelerated really
really quickly
um so that's what the go to market team
looks like essentially with me
um and so we're pretty lean there in
terms of customers we have less than 10
paying customers but we have about 50
people using the product so
um the the balance that we're trying to
strike is that
um in some ways it's kind of easy to
give away a product but you're not
necessarily learn learning whether
you're getting valued the right way by
your customer and so one of the things
that we wanted to test almost
uncomfortably early is when we can
actually start charging a real price for
the product and so
um like honestly we started having
conversations about pricing before we
even had dashboards built in the tool
and and part of this is like we're
trying to stress test what is a bi tool
and I was sort of hopeful that we could
a bi tool could be something that could
let anyone query a database and uh in in
many ways
asking for money helped us learn about
what we needed to be in order to charge
money and sort of what we needed to be
to be a true replacement for other
products that people were looking at
um so
we we started uh we started quoting
people I think in February
um and so we we have started closing
business which has been nice but the way
I would frame it is that the thing that
we're trying to do now is not gather
Revenue as quickly as possible we're
trying to get people committed to work
in the platform and live in the platform
and financial incentives are a good
driver of that like a company that's
paying us twenty five thousand dollars a
year is more committed to working with
us than someone that you know downloads
it on their desktop and and uses it for
a couple minutes so it's like it's kind
of all woven together in terms of what
we're trying to test as a company
that's right um they have skin in the
game they're paying you 25 000 have in a
in a weird way an incentive to take
advantage of the product that you're
providing them because they're paying
for yeah so many uh interesting insights
there were there were two that I really
latched on to
um as you were just sort of like
describing where you are today the first
is the urgency with which your business
is operating so this is a complicated uh
technology product This is complicated
software it is business intelligence and
it is completing it is competing against
incumbents with many many years of
um developing technology uh and in 12
months you have 50 people on 13 months
uh everyone will frame it uh you have 50
companies that are on the product you
have um a little less than 10 that are
paying for the product you have three
people in go to market you have 20 many
people uh that are now at the company
that is fast paced um and you are really
accelerating the time to uh uh success
in in building this business and you
know I certainly applaud you and excited
and am excited
um to see that type of urgency in
progress the second thing that stands
out and we may talk about this both on
the employee side and on the customer
acquisition side but you've said this
now two times
um I think 19 of the 20 people are
former looker employees of course yeah
and three out of three go to market
people are former looker employees
um and so you are uh leveraging your
network uh maybe in a in a um more
sophisticated way or more effective way
than I've ever heard of that's like
that's you know 95 of the company
um and and so like you're you're
probably doing that both on the uh
hiring side and then also on the
customer acquisition side and that's
something that like I can't preach
enough in many different
um framings one of which is like the
hiring side when you're ready to hire
your first IE AE leverage your network
whether it's former colleagues friends
investors
um like you know don't gravitate towards
putting a job posting on your website
and seeing who sort of like comes in uh
and kind of the same thing is true on
the customer acquisition side which of
course we're going to get to
um okay so just a bit of a recap of the
things that stood out for me uh let's um
now go back to uh sort of like when you
start the business
um a little over a year ago you have
almost 10 paying customers we talked
about the urgency and progress in such a
short amount of time
um when were the first interactions that
you had with potential customers and
what were those interactions yeah I mean
it's kind of funny because
um I think again because of that Network
just announcing that we were building a
bi company
we had people inbounding us last April
May
um and this was people like we had you
know a little bit of code written but it
was it was more an idea than a product
at that point in time and we were
talking to people that were theoretical
customers like I remember having a
conversation literally last May and they
were like we're buying a bi tool right
now can I can I take a look at what you
have and uh we had to sort of be like
well we could we don't have anything yet
so you have to hold for a second
um so I mean we we got to talk to people
very very early I'd say in Earnest when
we announced our a is when we had a
really kind of a much larger set of
pipeline that come through but a lot of
what we've been doing is just sort of
talking about what we're building on
especially LinkedIn
um and naturally our Network connects to
Max looker employees X looker customers
or current looker customers and so in in
many ways we were sort of trying to
inject ourselves into the conversation
before we were ready but get the sort of
idea that we're building sort of the
next great thing
um and so some combination of this sort
of like we're here and we're interesting
and we know what we're doing in the
space with these little sort of tidbits
of product that we're building and then
honestly a lot of it was working through
our Network in a one-to-one way so
uh X looker employees that became you
know the CEOs of companies have been
really effective to you know pick up the
phone and this is the advantage of like
the the second time sort of like
experience founder is that you can pick
up the phone and ask your friend to use
the products and it's having a real
friend be able to do that you're going
to also be able to ask them for money
because they're running a business too
and they want the business to be
successful but they're going to
transparently tell you whether the
product is ready or not they'll say like
hey this is this is awesome uh but it's
not a product yet it's like I'm not
going to give you money or they'll say
like oh my God this is the thing like
how can I start paying you so that
everyone can use this and we started
doing that very very early because you
know like if you have a a warm
connection you can hand them the product
and get real feedback like they are our
ICP user
um they are exactly the person that we
want to use the product but we also know
that they can give us transparent
feedback and and we can actually learn
from it they'll work with us because we
have that trust so I mean like we were
really out essentially as soon as we
could reasonably declare that we had
anything that was useful for people and
I think what we found is that it wasn't
useful enough
um so like when looker was founded
actually we didn't have dashboards for
two years I wasn't there at the time but
I was a customer and it was really just
this SQL compiler um you built the model
literally in the command line and you
deployed it out and it wrote SQL for you
and you couldn't actually put more than
one visualization on a dashboard and so
my Hope was like great
um it will go the same route and uh
we'll build this like really awesome SQL
compiler like very technical power user
tool and users in the market told us
that's not good enough now
um like you need dashboards and I need a
bi product and so that led us to
retrench and say okay let's set some
timelines for when we think we can have
a v0 of this dashboard bi product and
that was sort of January 1st and we sort
of sprinted at that and then we got the
dashboards out by December uh December
1st and then we could have people that
were actually living in the product
kind of on a full-time basis and so I
think getting out there early helped us
learn about uh sort of what the product
needed to be but sort of the interesting
refinement that I would say is that we
weren't out there asking customers to
tell us what the product should be
um I think this was a case where we I I
kind of have said this literally since
last March but we're a sort of pivot
list company like we know exactly what
we are building and the execution at the
edges is very open to interpretation
like I want to learn about my workflows
and understand that people are using
them the way that I really want them to
but we're not asking them to sort of
redesign the product for us so it was
sort of this smash our idea into the
market and sort of figure out at the
margin the things that we're getting
right into things we're getting involved
you've just uh reinforced one one
important takeaway that may or may not
be obvious but but definitely worth uh
sort of reinforcing
um that that Howard last week on the
podcast talked about
um and you you probably haven't listened
to that one and so you yeah
um fanatical rub user though by the way
uh yeah you introduced me
um so uh spend a lot of time with
customers uh from almost day one uh you
started the company March customer
interaction started in April and
um use that time to understand uh some
customer challenges customer problems
um and what what sort of good looks like
uh potentially from a customer's
perspective but do not use that time to
have the customers design the product
for you because the solutions that they
will come up with are limited to the
information that they have like that is
sort of like your job as a founder and
product leader to design those Solutions
um and then along this this company
Journey
um there was a period of time that brex
where uh our Founders
um spent less time customer facing and
then very quickly realized that uh that
was a mistake and I've talked a couple
times on this podcast about uh Enrique
having just uh his calendar full of
customer calls as we were exploring
developing this new product called
Empower and so my takeaway from uh many
of these different conversations is
spend
um a large amount of your time as a
Founder customer facing and never change
that
um that is like high Roi valuable time
spent and the the company will benefit
from that
um one thing I want to be sensitive to
is uh not everyone who is starting a
company is going to be the former head
of product at a company that was
acquired for billions of dollars and
have this sort of like Network
advantages that we've talked about on
this call that said you should just take
advantage like that that's not the
takeaway the takeaway isn't you know um
higher 19 people from the former company
that you lead product at the the
takeaway for me is really like um just
take stuff talk of your personal and
specific environment and leverage
whatever resources you do have available
to you
um and that could be investors that
could be if you've done YC leverage YC
in their Network that can be your sort
of like um personal or social network
that can be where you went to school
maybe you were you know in computer
science at a really amazing University
and had classmates that uh have gone on
to again it's going to be different for
everyone
um but Colin you very easily could have
been you know at um 10 employees and
have one of them be from looker but you
have sort of deliberately taken
advantage of the uh resources that are
available to you
um and so I think that's the primary uh
takeaway um and again like not everybody
has the the background or advantages
that you may have but everybody does
have
um uh their own situation that they can
you know leverage uh and then one thing
that I heard the last takeaway is around
um social media you talked about
LinkedIn posts I I've seen your LinkedIn
posts I engage with them regularly it's
free
um and you you can um you're building a
space that you know argue arguably
better than anyone else anyone else and
you are posting about it and you were
becoming a thought leader in that space
and again
um it is free outside of the time that
you dedicate uh to doing that and and so
um it sounds like that is paying
dividends and potentially a takeaway for
uh others it is and I what I would add
there is I think I I'm a I'm an example
of one of those people that is like a
very uncomfortable uh thought leader
like I even just sort of hate the idea
of putting out the content
um like I I wouldn't I would imagine
that you experience this also
we both is what's going through my mind
right and your stuff is great though but
I think the the interesting point is
that when you start doing it in sort of
your own way
um so like
bringing actual authenticity I feel like
I'm a social media like advisor right
now but you just have to be yourself on
these things like I had a really really
hard time writing blog posts because I
just can't write 10 pages of long form
and I really like conversations and I
really like you know like three
paragraph quick thoughts because we have
a lot of those and we tested a lot of
different places like I'm not cool
enough and quippy enough for Twitter and
our stuff hasn't done as well there and
on LinkedIn it's done quite well with
this sort of you know
half a half a screen text that you know
tells a story or a point of view and is
a little bit argumentative
um and so like I think just testing
these things like getting over that sort
of leap
um has been really effective and then
the other thing is it builds like crazy
um like doing one in isolation does a
little bit but as you write more and
more it gets it both gets easier to
write but also you start building this
audience of people
um and it's kind of funny because I sort
of built it targeting like first degree
connections and now I get approached and
a lot of people are like oh I see your
stuff it's it's interesting and and
they're not my buyer necessarily but the
name is getting out there and our our
ideas are getting in front of these
people and we're sort of starting to
it's just this way to get projection
into the market so it's been really
effective for us obviously we need to
find more channels but we've been sort
of surprised at how effective it's been
and then the other kind of interesting
thing is finding the other networks for
your industry so like for us DBT is this
open source project where people write
SQL transformation they have a very
active Slack
following what people are doing in there
and sort of just understanding who
exists in the community and things like
that has been another place that we've
sort of learned a ton from just you know
participating in it and um just sort of
being out there but like testing as much
as possible
awesome so you have uh uh just through
sort of like trial and error on social
media you have
um come to a place where you have an
effective social media sort of like
strategy or program that is in place you
didn't know what it was going to be on
day one
um but you got there
um and so like takeaways would be throw
some stuff up against the wall see what
starts getting some traction uh invest
more in that you know this is something
that both you and Howard spends time on
and um I do as well as you yeah
um and uh it has worked for us and so
again it's hard to say specifically what
will work for you know um all of the
audience if we knew there would be sort
of like a Playbook on on how to do this
uh but use your own voice find what
works for you
um and eventually you'll sort of like
get to something that has an impact
um okay so you're doing uh you start the
company you start are doing some social
media uh you have some customers that
are reaching out
um did you have commitments from
customers before the product was ready
for them this concept of like design
customers and if yes uh how did you
source and close those design customers
yeah I mean I I'd say we did and still
do
um and and I think to go back to sort of
the previous conversation it's this
Confluence between we're trying to be a
valuable product in the market so
there's a lot of stuff out there that
sells for a hundred dollars a month
there's other stuff like looker that on
the high end can go like 250 or 500 000
annually and sort of we wanted to say
like we we want to have a sales driven
model so we want to be at you know forty
five thousand dollars a year acvs at
least for now
um and so a lot of these conversations
were with that sort of warm social
network which is like hey we want to
sell for uh 25k what does the product
need to look like to do that or
um like what do we need to do to replace
your bi to and I would say to your point
like it was not spec driven development
it wasn't like I need these 10 features
to buy the product but it was sort of I
love what your core looks like and again
we had this forward deploy trial where
we let people touch and feel the product
but we tried to find people that that
got it and wanted to use the product and
loved it and then we really tried to
sort of poke at like what is keeping you
from living on this platform like what
are the handful of things that are
missing for you and do those align with
the things that we want to build so one
of our customers for example uses a
fiscal calendar and we did not have
fiscal calendar support that's something
that we could go bang out in a day and
now they can do all their fiscal
reporting through the product and so it
was sort of like that reconciliation
that we were trying to figure out
um and so it was like this balance of
testing the product and and
um you know finding the gaps and then
also just understanding who we needed to
talk to what the messaging needed to be
so I've probably done 150 demos at this
point and over time we got to sort of
the messaging that makes sense in
different tiers of the market so it was
also like messaging Market fit testing
um and the kind of who are these people
uh they kind of came in three buckets so
one was people that we knew very well
and essentially demanded that we knew
that we demanded that they use the
product so these are like friends
investors you know like anyone that will
pick up the phone and talk to us
ex-looker employees have been like a
super fruitful ground for this but
people that will pick up the phone and
talk to us and essentially we are
forcing them to use the product and
reconciling that against buying it
there's like warm uh sort of like second
degree so sort of like this light
outbound that's sort of like hey uh this
could be interesting give it a little
look and then a third of them we don't
really know where they're coming from it
appears a lot of it is sort of social
um and sort of like rumor
um and it actually has been an
interesting to see the mix between those
because uh each person comes with a very
different point of view on what they
expect in the product and so while I can
get friends to use the product they
might understand looker a certain way
and sort of reflect that in Omni where
the sort of cold lead might understand
it in a very different way so it's been
helpful to help us sort of understand
where to develop and sort of how to
build
um but kind of like my answer is and I
don't even know if this is good anyone
that will talk to us I'm trying to drive
into a trial to get feedback
um and
it's really like I'm trying to frame
this is going to cost you money I still
want you to use it give me as much
feedback as you can and we'll make the
economics work if I create enough value
for you
and how did you you mentioned
well I'll I'll just finish the thought
how did you uh determine the right time
to get people actually in and you
deploying the product itself so you're
developing the product day one the
product doesn't exist so definitely
can't people can't be using it yep
there's this sort of like Journey that
you go on of building the product and
how do you decide okay now we're ready
to actually get people using and testing
this and then continuing along that
um uh path how then do you decide okay
now the product is actually ready to
have people pay us for it they're like
Milestones just any any way that you're
probably yeah I mean the way I would
describe it and again this is like my
benefit from having been in this market
is I am I was and continue to be sort of
our most important user so I it's not
uncommon for me to use the product like
three or four hours a day in in like
pockets of our usage
um and a lot of it was just taste like
this is good enough or it's not quite
there yet and so like if you are using
your own product a lot and you have a
vision for what it should be I mean this
is again like our advantage is that
we've used all the products in the space
and we've been building looker for the
last 10 years so like I know what grade
bi looks and feels like and I know what
differentiation looks and feels like and
so a lot of it was just sort of like the
product wasn't quite there really
interesting pieces really interesting
pieces and then it was like oh here's a
couple workflows that are differentiated
and unique and really good and the stuff
over there is still really rusty and
like needs a lot of thought but like
there's one really interesting happy
path that a user can go down and get a
lot of value and that was sort of the
moment that I said I can start giving
this to people I think there there then
reaches a point where there's a bucket
of differentiation and a bucket of
weakness and sort of the differentiation
in Flex over the weakness where like now
this is sort of interesting enough that
if I'm at if I'm honestly in the market
buying my own tool this is the tool I'm
going to choose and obviously I'm biased
and it's like being built for a lot of
the very specific things I care about
but I think once that happened it was
sort of like okay we're ready to go and
again continue to get the feedback from
people and sort of feed it back in so
like we've had to retrench a couple
times where we thought it was more ready
than it was like the dashboard is a
great example and people were just like
no it's not ready like it needs that and
then you sort of unlock that next gate
which is like now it's great if I don't
have a bi tool but if I'm coming from
looker I need these three things they're
really important to me and it's like
okay great let's knock out those three
things so we unblock that piece
um it's like a line to the vision and
then like we're up to the next stage of
competition sort of
awesome so you've now for the second
time reinforced something that Howard
said last week which is
um I and we within uh Rome and now for
for you Omni are power users of our
product and
um when we were happy with the user
experience
um that we had personally we knew that
we could put uh external folks on the
product itself
um and so you know we now have an nf2
and a pretty solid two there
um okay and then uh continuing along to
charging
um it's it's a combination of delivering
value so once once we were delivering
value to the customer and you know this
is a competitive space so delivering
value and in a differentiated way
compared to what exists in the
marketplace to sort of justify saying
give us money not them money and as soon
as you're able to do that start charging
um that was like my interpretation you
didn't say it that explicitly no that's
exactly that's sort of like the way that
Howard thought about it as well which
was like you know
um the signal that you can receive by
offering your product for free for too
long is really really negative
um and this is enterprise software
companies can afford products and so you
should charge as soon as you possibly
can yes that I think that's exactly
right and I think to your point I think
there might be a difference between
entering a really competitive space and
sort of building a new market and
building a new market seems very hard
but like
for bi there's just a budget like
they're ready to spend
25 now every company above a certain
size is spending twenty five thousand
dollars a year on bi and sort of a
question that's like can that be our 25
000 and so our advantage is like this
obvious Market our disadvantage is it's
a very competitive market and so that is
the sort of balance that that is like
the hypothesis that we're trying to test
like Howard
his he's kind of in this sort of past
space where he's doing some net new
things he's sort of replacing tools but
sort of complimenting them so like
there's a little bit of a different
calculus there but I think it always
just comes back to like is it doing
something great and do people love it
um and like when you combine that with a
business model like that is when you
have greatness so it's like I can decide
when the product is great and we know
what the business model can look like so
let's just smash those together
awesome
um the advice I always provide uh to
folks is assuming you're doing sales
lead growth
um you want to have a few
um paying customers before you hire
dedicated sales people and so it sounds
like I think the timing was that around
February you said you started providing
quotes to customers and charging for
your product and you hired your first
dedicated sales people in April
um and so uh I I like you you have now
paint your first set of paying customers
you decide to hire your first couple
sales people what are the sort of like
demand gen channels that you're
leveraging at this point in time which
is few paying customers
um you mentioned it's not the top
priority in the business but I suspect
that you do want more paying customers
so what what are the the sort of like um
areas that you're pouring gasoline onto
yeah so we're really just starting to
fire up our outbound motion
um just because uh like in in thinking
about you know this first 50 and the
ones that look like our ideal customer
like the ones that get it the ones that
are using the product the way that we
like I I think that we're trying to say
like how do we find more of those
because they have like this very
specific look and so that is the motion
that we're firing up right now to go get
in front of people whose bi stack looks
a certain way so like small looker
customers is a great example
um get in front of them and start
talking more about what our product does
and how it's better
um so that's that's one I think we're
very much trying to figure out how to
scale social much better like how we
write more and how we put out more
content
um like again I started this year I'm
trying to put out a post a week and
honestly that is producing a decent
enough amount of pipeline for us
um for now so it's sort of like how do
we get a little bit more scale in that
and and one example is like I find it
really easy to have conversations with
people but we need to turn that into
text and put it up on the internet so
it's like can we record thoughts bundle
it up I don't know like pass it through
chat gbt so that it turns into better
writing or something but we're I mean
we're playing with a bunch of different
ideas on the content side
um but that's an area that we're working
on right now
uh there's no bigger proponent uh of of
outbound than me
um I I'm like constantly preaching it
whether it be uh through posts or
Founders that I meet with
um but one thing that does come to mind
uh and I'll relate it back to back to
Brax and also talk a little bit about
how you're doing this at Omni
um before we launched it Rex we were in
uh sort of like closed beta but we were
outbounding to companies that we wanted
to put on the product in this closed
beta and brex didn't have a website
um everybody's uh LinkedIn said stealth
um and so you can imagine if you're like
a uh uh startup and you receive an email
from this company that people don't even
have a LinkedIn uh up that they work at
the company and the company doesn't even
have a website
um you can imagine your like probability
of replying to this company and giving
them all your sensitive financial
information and so the areas that we
were outbounding to were companies that
knew who we were it was mostly YC
um because like Pedro Enrique or NYC uh
we could leverage their batch and and
say like you know your batchmates better
Enrique we could also leverage previous
batches and say like you know we were in
this YC class and many of those folks
you know they go to demo day and those
sorts of things
um and uh I'll give some other examples
and then I'll get to the point
um when we launched we put Billboards up
all over San Francisco the day that we
launched we did a big PR campaign around
uh fundraising and launching the product
we sponsored a bunch of podcasts we did
all of these things like the the very
day that we launched actually
um and when we would email uh the the
companies that we were outbounding to
the likelihood that they would have
heard of us was quite High actually we
were deliberate about emailing folks in
San Francisco that maybe had seen our
billboards maybe read the articles about
the fundraising all the social media
posts and for you you are leveraging
social media and it sounds like LinkedIn
becoming a bit of a thought leader in
this bi space that presumably the buyers
of your product have a bit of
um sort of like up-to-date information
on the happenings in the space and so I
imagine that your response rates to your
outbound are higher in someone who knows
Colin has seen Colin's posts and so um
for those of you that are listening and
leveraging outbound which again I
couldn't be a bigger proponent of have
in mind that some like brand Tailwinds
around uh people knowing who you are and
concentrating in areas that the folks
that you are outbounding to may have
heard of your business will increase the
probability of outbound being successful
exponentially and I don't know if you're
doing that deliberately or
coincidentally Colin but um it's likely
happening for you oh we're I mean we're
definitely targeting second degrees as
much as we possibly can
um and like the looker connection we can
I kind of always talk to a former or
current looker user as a first degree
connection because we just have so much
experience with that group of people
um so you know like we are definitely
trying to lean into that as much as we
possibly can
makes sense
um and then you have two sales reps
three folks in go to market yeah you're
doing some selling and outbounding and
social media posts how are you thinking
about success as it relates to go to
market today do you have monthly Revenue
targets do you have lead targets what
what are what are the things that you're
thinking about from a customer
acquisition standpoint at this stage
where customer acquisition is important
but not the priority as you yeah earlier
we don't have lead targets we have
meeting targets and we have deal targets
um that said I'm trying to be rational
about the ramp time even for really
experience uh kind of new reps but you
know like with two reps we need to close
a certain number of deals a month and a
close certain number of deals a month we
need a certain number of meetings and
these are things that we can pressure
test pretty easily so it's like
by steady state we want to get to five
deals a month and probably the 20 to 25
meetings it takes to get those five
deals
um and like I hope it's fewer meetings
and more more closed deals but like we
have a vague financial model I actually
just wrote a post about it where I sort
of open sourced our kind of first
planning doc
um but we have a basic model for how we
think it should work and can work and
now it's just sort of like again
colliding reality with what we hope can
happen like if we get 25 meetings can we
really confidently get five or ideally
you know like 12 deals out of it
um that is the sort of test that we are
running right now
makes a lot of sense okay
um and then you've now been at this uh
for a number of years in a number of
different companies I guess just big
picture
um it sort of like the the stage that
you're at today maybe a little bit
beyond what are the most effective
acquisition channels you've used uh it
sounds like social media and outbound
are two of them and are that are being
effective on the
um any sort of like stories there that
the audience can learn from and drive
for their businesses and then yeah sort
of like the inverse of that question as
well what are some things that you've
tried and failed
yeah I mean I I think that this is again
going to sound obvious but like
fanatically happy customers are your
best acquisition Channel
um like the interesting thing with
looker that I remember and I was a
customer is I was selling it to other
people before I joined looker and it's
the same with Rome now like every single
person I talk to that says they're a
remote company I say go look at Rome
like you have to look at Rome I love it
you should use it and that is free and
it's authentic and there is no better
version of an inbound lead than that
like I have a great example which is we
did a demo to a company in Finland and
ultimately they wanted a bi product that
was 100 a month and we said that's not
that wouldn't make sense for us like it
we'll we'll come back and talk to you in
a year when I think you're a little bit
more mature and you'll want us they
referred us to a 7 000 person company in
Finland that is having a conversation
with us and their feedback was like the
product looks amazing it's a little too
expensive for us I we're not quite ready
for it yet there is no better version of
leads than that
um like your customers can tell stories
better than you can uh like customer
driven outbound is better than your
internal outbound if you can do it so
make customers like not like your
product but like obsessively love and
Market your product on your behalf the
difference this is I hate NPS but the
difference between a seven and a 10 for
what you're the way that your customer
explains the product to other people
is significantly different
um
in terms of what doesn't let's pause
there because I think it's such an
important point that we actually haven't
touched on
um that is this like additional two
we've talked about social media we've
talked about outbound
um we have not talked about leveraging
uh customers or sort of like raving fans
of your product and one thing that
um I wonder if you've been deliberate
about and uh I recommend to be delivered
about is some sort of a strategy there
like something that is formalized around
um just thinking about okay we know who
the customers are that love us and what
is sort of like a program or incentive
that we can put in place to drive the
behavior that you just described which
um generates additional demand for us
like you know talking about our products
to people that may be looking for
something in the space but it also makes
winning deals easier if you develop this
reputation of a product that people love
and they sort of like heard about you
whether or not it's a priority today it
may be a priority a year from now two
years from now
um and so just like getting as much sort
of like buzz and excitement about the
product from these raving fans happy
customers however you want to frame it
have you thought about formalizing
something to take advantage of that
um and uh for those listening like it
might be something interesting for you
to to do we haven't yet
um it took us a very long time to do
that at looker and I'll say like if you
have a more plg motion it's probably
much easier to create like that right
type of incentive we haven't done it yet
I would say the framing for how I think
about it is what we have done is try to
have obsessively amazing customer
support so like literally every ticket
pushes to my phone and when I say ticket
it's like we open up a slack room with
every customer every message in any
customer slack Channel pushes to my
phone so I will jump on the phone at
midnight and start helping someone debug
and run to my computer and go fix the
problem that they have have or try to
help them work through it so I think we
are still in the stage of create the
tens but I I think it is a good thought
that we should we we should figure out
how to then turn those people into
referrals
um and like in some ways it that is the
brand Halo too is like I want those
people liking my things on LinkedIn
because that gets projection and all
these things do feed each other but it's
a it's a good thought of how you
actually create like a more direct
incentive to do that well maybe an
interesting takeaway actually for those
that are listening is less on the um on
the customer generating side but for
folks that do love uh using a product
like Omni and Colin just mentioned it
sort of like
um being a proponent of that product uh
interacting with their social media
those things are valuable to the
business uh and so for those listening
for the types of products that you do
love and people that you have
relationships with I'm sure those those
types of interactions uh and
conversations where you're promoting Are
Much appreciated
um taking like a little bit of the
opposite approach here which is like you
know being a consumer of the product
versus a seller of the product
um okay you were starting down the path
of anything that hasn't worked
yeah that hasn't worked
um
I mean I'm trying to think back to our
previous life I I mean I I think what
hasn't worked for me for example is just
like uh bagging out blog posts for
example like doing the type of marketing
that I'm not great at is sort of the
answer so like being cool on the
Internet is is uh not something that I
am great at and I think it's one of
those things that's been harder for us
to Market it's like the real examples
Twitter has been really really bad for
us I don't know why
um maybe it's because I'm not paying for
blue and I need to you know up my uh
up my game over there expensive out
there but uh it's been weak for us I
mean uh I think I've seen the content
strategy work great and not work great
so Stitch uh Chris is our third
co-founders company they did an amazing
job of just putting out a lot of micro
sites and really being amazing at the
SEO game I think that's an example of
something that you need to invest really
hard in if you want to do it well like
you can't take half steps into content
you're either like producing great
content or you're sort of like the 50
gets you ten percent of the yields
whereas like the 90 gets you the 90 of
the yield so I think it's just using
each of the channels right yeah you had
to think about it for a moment but I
think the takeaway is actually a really
important one which is
um uh sort of like what hasn't worked
for you is when you have tried to force
something that has worked for others but
is inauthentic for you or your company
um and so like you know don't be afraid
to try and test things and also don't be
afraid to abandon something if it's not
you
um and leverage the things that are
working and are sort of more organic um
ending on anything else that you think
is uh important to talk about what lots
of Founders in the audience lots of uh
sales leaders in the audience uh that
might be building companies yeah I mean
I we sort of touched on it the whole
time but like the way I explain it to
other young companies that I talk to is
kind of like try to use your own cheat
codes like everybody has a different
cheat code to be successful and lean
into the ones that you have
um so like mine was a lot of this looker
Network and the sort of second degree
version of that that's what we've leaded
to
um if you have a different thing that
you're amazing at like lean into that
because that is your core
differentiation
um and and like don't be afraid to do a
lot of one-to-one stuff like I've been
really surprised at what
sending a nice note to a person that I'm
not super close with but I think I can
actually add value to does for people
like I in in some ways what I really
mean is like believe in selling as a
value add as a Founder which sometimes
is hard like you think of selling as
this sort of like I'm trying to convince
people that don't need a thing to buy it
and I think when you invert it to
selling as trying to get things that
solve problems for people in front of
them more efficiently then you really
sort of pivot your mindset to like I'm
trying to help people like I truly
believe that I'm trying to give people
better data analytics I'm not trying to
sell them my product I'm trying to give
them a better version of the future and
it's like I think just that tweak and
mentality helps a lot
I can't think of a higher node to end on
um and so that's what we will do Colin
uh thank you so much for joining this
was a blast and so many interesting
takeaways for me personally and
hopefully for everyone that's listening
out there
um thank you all for being here we'll be
back soon with another episode uh Colin
again thank you and take care of
everyone that's listening bye-bye thanks
[Music]
thank you